Three hundred years ago, before the creation of the [[Kingdom of Venidar]], the world was ruled by supremely powerful [[Mage]]s who termed themselves God-Emperors. Their accumulation of magical knowledge and resources was so immense that their supremacy could be contested only by other mages. The common people, non-Mages, were left to squalor in the dust as the God-Emperors wracked the world in their heavenly battles against each other.
### The rebellion
The God-Emperors went unchecked for many ages, until an enterprising Mage and her warrior husband discovered the [[Rite of Severing]] and the [[Rite of Entanglement]]. Together, they captured and bound other Mages to Phylacteries under their control, starting with the weakest Mage they could find and turning their powers against their powers against their own.

The duo's rebellion against the God-Emperors spread like wildfire, rising all non-Mages up against their oppressors. As they captured more and more Mages, their power increased, until they were able to capture the God-Emperor of Karthun. They stripped the God-Emperor of his name, title, and autonomy, and declared themselves King and Queen.

The God-Emperors were too obsessed with their egos and their petty conflicts to unite against this new Monarchy, and each fell one-by-one to the rebellion. At the threshold of victory, the King turned against the Queen and had the Rite of Severing performed against her. In desperation, she performed the Rite of Entanglement to save herself, placing her newly created Phylactery in the hands of the King. The King then stripped her of her name and title, relegating her to the same servitude he felt befitting of all Mages. His hatred of Mages, it seemed, had all along exceeded his love for her. The King reigned supreme over all of Casteron.
### After the rebellion
Some of the Magocracy's holdings remained intact throughout the rebellion, and now serve as the seats of power for Casteron nobles. Others were levelled entirely, and others yet remain in ruins, their arcane secrets available to be scoured by enterprising adventurers.